# My Progress

I would like to share whatever I am going to learn throughout this coding bootcamp. This will be a series of posts which has my experience, some snipets of code and also some diagrams. This is to keep a record of all my learnings which will be useful for reference in the future. It may also be helpful for beginners who want to learn coding. 

## What I Have Learnt

My newfound interest for coding has been growing with each class as I explore the wonders and techniques of technology. These past classes, I have learnt about terminal commands such as list (ls) amd changing directory (cd), making a new directory (md), moving a file (mv), renaming a file (mv) and the use of -r. The use of these commands helps you to make,remove,rename,change directories with one command using keyboards rather than opening a folder and using mouse. I gained knowledge of basic file operations and the working of audio in computer transmitted to the other users. I learnt how to write a program in shell script and the basic scripting features used. I wrote batch of commands in shell script and found how variables are stored in memory address. The use of echo and dollar sign before variables was used extensively. The running of the script in cmder was a important part of the whole scripting process. Next, I learned how to operate mathematical operations in shell script with the use of BODMAS and how to collect data from user using <read -p> syntax. Performing the mathematical operations required the knowledge and information on every symbol; the modulo (%) used to find remainder, curly brackets {} and parenthesis () and angular brackets <> and  knowing when to use each. Then, I learnt how to use for loop to make directories for three different folder having the same inputs. Using -countryPickerIndex- and -${!countries[@]}-. Learnt about for, while and do loop and each of their syntax in shell script and the pick and position of variables. I look forward to learning more. 